This is the plaintext file for the program ClassicalEncDyc. The following is random text gathered from the interent



####
Vienna early next morning; should have arrived at 6:46, but train was an
hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse which I
got of it from the train and the little I could walk through the
streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived
late and would start as near the correct time as possible. The
impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering the
East; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, which is
here of noble width and depth, took us among the traditions of Turkish
rule.

We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh.
Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale. I had for dinner, or
rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which was
very good but thirsty. (_Mem._, get recipe for Mina.) I asked the
waiter, and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a
national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along the
Carpathians. I found my smattering of German very useful here; indeed, I
don't know how I should be able to get on without it.


     "My Friend.--Welcome to the Carpathians. I am anxiously expecting
     you. Sleep well to-night. At three to-morrow the diligence will
     start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for you. At the Borgo
     Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me. I trust
     that your journey from London has been a happy one, and that you
     will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land.

"Your friend,

"DRACULA."


Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my room and said in a
very hysterical way:

"Must you go? Oh! young Herr, must you go?" She was in such an excited
state that she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew, and
mixed it all up with some other language which I did not know at all. I
was just able to follow her by asking many questions. When I told her
that I must go at once, and that I was engaged on important business,
she asked again:

"Do you know what day it is?" I answered that it was the fourth of May.
She shook her head as she said again:

"Oh, yes! I know that! I know that, but do you know what day it is?" On
my saying that I did not understand, she went on:


       *       *       *       *       *

_5 May. 
####
